hey guys Jordan back again for some more
battlefield 3 ranting and as highly
requested I'm here to rant about the
Recon class the Recon class seems to be
quite the polarizing topic among
battlefield 3 players as some people
swear by the Recon class and some spit
on them like lower-class citizens
figuratively of course players aren't
literally spitting on their screens at
least I hope not how are you no of
course not anyways this isn't gonna
cover every nook and cranny of the Recon
class as it is a difficult one to master
and I nowhere near being great at recon
but there are some topics I feel the
need to address as they're common issues
I see being done and effectively or not
at all okay so if you've watched my
previous class rants you'll know that I
am a proud supporter of the three key
I'll salt players and support players
should be pressing the key like it where
the key to make their character breathe
well today I'm going to be endorsing a
new key the q key everyone should be
tapping q more often and quicker than
they tapped mila kunis if they got the
chance see see the joke is there that
they do it a lot and they're quick in
the sack whatever not my best joke sue
me if you didn't laugh anyways for those
of you don't play the PC version q is
the spot key so it would be back or
select for you guys everyone should be
spotting enemies all the time regardless
of class but it's especially important
for the Recon class as at a distance
it's one of the only ways to actively
help your teammates aside from killing
people and extreme distances it's
actually more important than shooting
because the likelihood of a successful
one-shot kill from 800 meters is pretty
low and we're on the subject come on
guys really 800 meters you can't come
any closer I mean I'm not saying you
should be on the frontlines trying to
quickscope or something please don't do
that and I'm also not saying that it's
not okay to attempt shots from that far
away but it's three cons that devote the
entire game to sniping from the
deployment or from the Caspian tower or
the firestorm mountains that really
chapped my ass I mean even at 200 meters
you're still far enough away from the
enemy to have the advantage over them
but the closer you get the more accurate
you are and the easier it is to help the
team out you see chances are if you're
up on the summit a camp shit Mountain
you're a thousand metres away from any
relevant objective and to that I say to
you you are a waste of space on the
battlefield and I would rather be teamed
up with a fucking wiener dog than you
plain and simple if you're that far away
you're not concerned with the team your
main focus is getting along range kills
for yourself and that's it
aluminium being a spotter back here
bullshit fuck you you fucking fuck you
don't have a leg to stand on everyone in
the game is being a spotter all the time
if you really cared about spotting and
you wanted
a better job of it than anyone else
you'd be using the goddamn ma V to do it
because it does a much better job at it
than you with your rifle know you're
back there because you want to get
yourself some long-range headshots and
that's it and hey getting long-range
headshots is intensely satisfying I'm
not going to deny that but you know what
else is satisfying winning the fucking
game at 800 meters away you're not going
to be hitting anything with any sort of
regularity besides other stationary
snipers and at that point all you're
doing is having a one-on-one slap and
tickle fest with the other sniper and
neither of you are doing anything
worthwhile for your teams I mean I've
seen sniper battles in Gulf of Oman
between us solders prone on the aircraft
carriers and Russian snipers prone on
the coastline congratulations on your
little game across the map footsie with
that other guy the rest of us are
playing the objective in defending our
control point you know the shit that
actually wins games but Jordan I know
some of you are saying I've had games
with the top player and the team is a
sniper he had so many points he must
have been doing something for us right
no fuck what he probably wasn't what
you're forgetting about is the marksman
bonus if you've never played recon
before you should know that the Recon
gets a point bonus for long-range
headshots the point bonus is equivalent
to the metres they are away from the guy
who's kids they just orphaned I think
the idea behind this bonus is inherently
good giving bonuses for skilled kills as
a way to reward said skill but it's also
one of the biggest reasons that people
camp so far away trying to get headshots
from 800 meters they get a stupid amount
of points for one kill for instance if
you see an assault with five kills and
5,000 some odd points you should go
shake that guy's hand because to get
that many points he probably had 20
revives five or six flag captures and
was dropping med kits like they were
burning a hole in his pocket or his
backpack or wherever it is that assaults
or med kits I'm not quite sure how that
works if this were an actual ward that
guy would get so many congressional
medals of Honor he could use them as
wallpaper but if you see a sniper
sitting 900 meters away from the nearest
flag going for headshots with the exact
same set of kills and points he most
likely didn't do shit besides those five
headshot kills seeing as how he got a
hundred points for the kill ten points
for the headshot and oh yeah
900 fucking points for the marksman
bonus that's over 1,000 points for one
kill and that's fucking absurd no one
player should get that many points for
one single kill I mean if you tell
someone they can get so many points that
way the incentive to be a productive
member of your team drop significantly
secondly I mean look at it this way if a
team player recon were to team up with
an engineer and use teamwork
communication coordination and skill to
properly placed on a sole flame in order
to use a laser to designate a helicopter
to tell a rocket in mid-flight where to
go to blow up a chopper to help stop the
capturing force from taking the
objective a swing the tide of war in
your favor the point both of those
players combined wouldn't even approach
half of what one lone wolf-- sniper can
get from one single kill simply because
he properly judged the bullet dropped
one time out of the nine shots he
probably took and this is inherently a
problem with a scoring system giving
that many points for one kill really
makes doing anything else in recon seem
pointless and therefore we get recons
that do nothing else but sent from the
Caspian Tower it really inflates the
importance of the Recon class because
they can get just as many points as a
hard-working team playing objective
capturing assault class simply by
getting five head shots on other
stationary snipers he killed five people
in one entire round
that's like point three kills per minute
you really think he helped your team now
yeah didn't think so and just let me say
this I'm not saying that getting such
long range kills does not take skill far
from it it takes a really steady hand
and or analog stick it is definitely a
difficult skill to achieve but in the
confines of an objective based shooter
compared to the skills of say capturing
objectives working together and
supporting your teammates so they can
better defend or attack the objectives
800-meter headshots is a pretty
superfluous skill it's like if your
doctor told you well I can't do the
surgery for you but I can't fit 40
marshmallows in my mouth okay doc that's
great but my appendix isn't gonna remove
itself okay that about wraps it up for
today I've actually got much more to say
than I thought about the Recon class so
I'll be doing another Recon range in the
near future until then thanks for
watching and please if you're playing
recon spot the enemies come into a
reasonable distance and don't be in
Newtons